Welcome back everyone to this lecture on leverage leverage is the ability to borrow money for use in
investing.
A simple example you're probably already familiar with as far as leverage is concerned would be something
like taking on a mortgage when purchasing real estate.
Now for algorithmic trading in our particular case we can define leverage as reinvesting debt to gain
a greater return on our investments.
Keep in mind you would only do this if you were very confident in your strategy and believed it to be
low risk.
The real world leverage is going to be provided by your broker and it's going to be highly dependent
on your particular strategy how risky it is how much money you have with the broker so what your account
size is previous payments fees whether or not you pay your debts on time.
That kind of thing.
Now typically we can actually measure leverage in terms of a ratio.
And we defined this as the leverage ratio where it's just equal to the debt you have plus your capital
base divided by your total capital base.
That's the sum of your capital base divided by your capital base.
Now let's go ahead and explore leverage in Quanto in will work with both the research note book and
the ID.
So open up two tabs in your browser and make sure to reference the notebook for the code used here.
I'm going to hop over to my browser Now OK so here am my browser I have an idea algorithm ready to go.
Right now it's blank as well as a new notebook ready to go.
So we're going to do is in this algorithm if you go to the notebook provided.
I've already created a simple algorithm for you.
So you're going to go ahead and copy that and paste it here and let me go ahead and just zoom out a
little bit so we can see the algorithm without any kind of weird formatting and this algorithm is really
simple and it's an algorithm we've actually seen before much earlier in the course where we essentially
go long on Amazon and short IBM.
So all we're doing is half of our portfolio goes along and Amazon.
The other half.
Schwartz IBM and you notice that we have two functions here.
The rebalance function which is what I just described.
And we also have the record function.
Remember we can record variables and we're going to be recording is not just the Amazon close price
as well as the IBM close price.
You'll also be recording leverage and exposure and those are two ways you can actually grab how much
leverage and how much exposure you have off your particular portfolio and the way you do that is off.
Any context object you say contex account leverage.
And that's going to return back the actual leverage to that gross exposure.
It by net liquidation and the exposure itself which is net underscore leverage and that's net exposure
divided by net liquidation.
So we're going to go ahead and run this algorithm.
So let's go ahead and back backtesting for let's say a year.
So we'll say 2016.
And right now for my case it's August 4th.
So it doesn't really totally matter what time you back to us we just need to go ahead and build that
algorithm.
It should be pretty quick.
So I'm going to quickly help forward in time for this to finish backtesting okay.
Once that is done back testing you should see the results.
In my case I performed a little better than the actual benchmark and that's mainly due to Amazon's huge
growth.
But you'll notice up here in the euro you have algorithms and then some sort of hash.
So we're going to do is if we click over here on run a full back test you'll notice something happens.
You end up getting two hash codes here.
The first one is the algorithms code and the second one is your back test code and that's why it's marked
with hash tag back to us.
So this is the code this back test code right here.
After that forward slash is the one we're going to need in order to actually reference this back test
information in our notebook.
So you need to run a full back test to really get this.
So again we go ahead and copy the algorithm run a full back test and at your your all you should see
the algorithms hash code.
And then this back test test code.
And keep in mind you're only entitled to view the back test that either one you have created or two
you're a collaborator on.
So the hash set are the hash number that I have up here it won't work for you.
You're going to need to grab your own unique code so keep that in mind.
So I will go ahead and grab this and then copy that.
I'm going to come back to my notebook.
Let me zoom in one more level here and there's a function I can call called Get back to us.
So we say B.T. is equal to get back test.
And then as a string I pass in the hash code.
And again just to reiterate here you will have your own unique hash code you can't just copy and paste
the one in the notebook.
So I'm going to run this.
And essentially it's going to grab that back test for me.
And then if I say Beati dots and I hit tab here I have a bunch of attributes related to this things
like I can ask.
What was the benchmark security I was testing against and will tell you Well it was 8 5 5 4 which we
know is the S&P 500.
And I can also do things like well what algorithm was I testing again and return back the hash code
for the algorithm ID and then I can also ask well what variables was I recording.
You can say Beati recorded variables and it all essentially turnback back a data frame very thing you
were recording.
So if you come back up here these were the things I was recording leverage Amazon close price IBM close
price et cetera.
So that second plot right here when you come back down and we see we have all that information in a
data frame so we can plot that out ourselves.
So for example if we kind of scroll down here I could say BT recorded variables remember that this is
a data frame so I can index it and I can grab something like de-leverage column and then plot that out.
So now on this plot we can see the leverage ratio calculated as a function of time.
And remember the leverage ratio is your debt plus your capital base divided by your capital base.
So we can see here when it's above 1 that means we have higher that values.
So it looks like it peaks around 1 point 0 3.
So that's essentially allowing us a 3 percent leverage here if we compare it back to our original capital
base.
So our algorithm is pretty calm since we're not really doing a whole lot of leverage but we could basically
juice the amount of leverage it has by editing the order target percent.
So let me go ahead and show you how we could do that.
I would not recommend this but let's show you just for example sake.
So we'll come back to the ITC and then come back to the algorithm.
And over here where we have 0.5 so half our portfolio to Amazon half of it to shore IBM we're going
to do is we can actually borrow money and we can do that by specifying greater than 1.0.
So remember typically we don't order target percents to all sum up to one or negative one the penny
if you're going to short stuff.
But here we're actually saying okay double the amount of money I have as my capital base and put it
into Amazon.
So basically borrow money in order to do this.
And I could do the same thing for something like IBM.
So essentially now four times the amount of my capital base is being used here.
So I'm doing this on margin.
And then I'm going to say this and let's run the full back test again and let's jump forward in time
for this is finished back testing.
So once this back test is done you'll notice that it actually has much higher returns than our previous
algorithm and we'll rerun the previous algorithm in just a second to show you what I'm talking about.
And notice we have almost 90 percent returns here and there is kind of some erratic behavior over here
in the middle.
We can see towards the end just has a huge jump and that's because we were actually able to borrow money
in order to make some of our shortfalls in our long calls here.
So if you go over here it's a daily position in gains at the back test starts you'll see our position
values and it's basically $2000000 and one $2000000 neither.
And that makes sense because we asked for a million dollars in initial capital and we said essentially
half our portfolio goes into Amazon or two times our portfolio value goes and Amazon excuse me and 2
times portfolio value goes into shorting IBM.
OK.
So those are the back test starts and gains.
Now notice here I only did this for a year.
So if we come back over here the results overview we can see we have eighty seven point nine percent
returns.
So we're going to do is come back to the algorithm and then I'm going to change this to what we initially
had which was 0.5 and negative 0.5.
So trying to keep close to 1.0 ratio for our leverage.
So I'm going to go ahead and build that algorithm and let's actually come back to the back to us let
me cancel this right here.
So Angela back to us and let's click on run Fulbeck test here so we can see all that information.
Okay.
So again same 2016 August 4 to 2017 Aug. 4 notice we start for a million dollars in capital.
And here we only get 20 percent returns and that's because we're not borrowing any money to make some
of these calls.
So then look at the position gains we can see if we have half a million dollars in each which is closer
to our initial capital.
And these are the daily positions in gains so we can also do things like group by day or if you click
on this you can filter by day etc. but hopefully you can see here the difference of just how effective
it is to borrow money on leverage.
Now keep in mind it is extremely risky because you could even owe more money than you actually had to
start with.
So definitely keep that in mind.
And again in real world situations this really has to do more if your relationship with your broker
your broker is not just going to let you borrow $4 billion with no questions asked so keep that in mind.
Now we're going to come back to the algorithm.
Let's go back to our high leverage situation where you basically say borrow a ton of money to do some
of these calls save that and then run the full back to us.
And what we're going to do is we're going to copy and paste this hash right here for this back to us.
So I'm going to appear your L I'm going to copy this and this is done back to us now so we'll come back
over the notebook and we're going to say Beattie is equal to get back to us.
And now keep in mind this is my kind of high leverage situation.
So now we have a high leverage situation so we can go ahead and plot out our leverage here.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We'll say BT dot member we call Ricordi variables.
And in here we have a Leveridge column.
So let's plot that out.
And when we plot that out we can see our leverage is much worse.
And it basically defaults around 4.0 which makes sense because we had double our portfolio in long Amazon
and then double our portfolio in shorting IBM.
So that's essentially four times as much money as we initially had.
So now using leverage I'm kind of trading around $4 billion worth of stocks initially at least and then
kind of messing around there.
You can see how inherently this is going to be a lot riskier if my algorithm doesn't really work.
So now finally as a last note here you're probably wondering well how do I actually set some sort of
hard limit on leverage.
I don't want to expose myself too much.
And that's actually really easing the I.T. just come over here.
Come back to your algorithm and initialize what you can do is there's a built in function called set
max.
And you notice you can actually set max position sizes for certain securities.
How many orders of stock you want for that particular security etc. but we're actually going to use
set max leverage and this is initially are essentially a hard stop and this will cause an error.
If you go beyond whatever leverage you specified.
Now for most typical algorithms that are kind of hovering around one point zero leverage you probably
want to give a little bit of leeway maybe like 5 percent or something like 1.0 or 5.
But notice this one is going to immediately fail because I specifically ask for more leverage down here.
So if I try to save this and build the algorithm I should get an air
so running forward in time it says hey there was a runtime error.
The account violates some constraint and your constraint was made Max leverage can't be more than 1
point zero or five.
So that automatically triggers an error.
And it will stop your album from running if you happen to violate whatever Max leverage you said.
Now if we come back here and set the sequel back to kind of our initial values where we say half our
portfolio long on Amazon half of that short are on IBM and then we build this algorithm with that 5
percent extra on the max leverage.
It should be fine.
And you can click here less to see the back to us ran fine.
So it never went above 1 point 0 5 ratio.
So you can set your max leverage value that way in case you're concerned about any extensive borrowing.
All right.
That's really all there is to discuss about leverage as far as we're concerned.
I will see you in the next lecture where we discuss hedging.
Thanks everyone.
I'll see you there.